{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf250
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0  
\f1\b ENGLISH\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
APPLE INC.\
SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR XCODE \
\
PLEASE READ THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT ("LICENSE") CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE (DEFINED BELOW). BY USING THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE, YOU ARE AGREEING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE.  IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE ELECTRONICALLY, SIGNIFY YOUR AGREEMENT TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE BY CLICKING THE "AGREE " BUTTON.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, DO NOT USE THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE AND CLICK \'93DISAGREE\'94. FOR DEVELOPER SOFTWARE INCLUDED WITH YOUR PURCHASE OF HARDWARE, YOU MUST RETURN THE ENTIRE HARDWARE/SOFTWARE PACKAGE IN ORDER TO OBTAIN A REFUND. \
\
IMPORTANT NOTE: This software may be used to reproduce, modify, publish and distribute materials. It is licensed to you only for reproduction, modification, publication and distribution of non-copyrighted materials, materials in which you own the copyright, or materials you are authorized or legally permitted to reproduce, modify, publish and distribute. If you are uncertain about your right to copy, modify, publish and distribute any material you should contact your legal advisor.\
\
1. General.
\b0  The Apple software, tools, utilities, sample or example code, documentation, interfaces, content, data, and other materials accompanying this License, whether on disk, print or electronic documentation, in read only memory, or any other media or in any other form, (collectively, the "Developer Software") are licensed, not sold, to you by Apple Inc. ("Apple") for use only under the terms of this License.  Apple and/or Apple\'92s licensors retain ownership of the Developer Software itself and reserve all rights not expressly granted to you. The terms of this License will govern any software upgrades provided by Apple that replace and/or supplement the original Developer Software, unless such upgrade is accompanied by a separate license in which case the terms of that license will govern. \
\
Title and intellectual property rights in and to any content displayed by or accessed through the Apple Software belongs to the respective content owner. Such content may be protected by copyright or other intellectual property laws and treaties, and may be subject to terms of use of the third party providing such content. This License does not grant you any rights to use such content nor does it guarantee that such content will continue to be available to you.\
\

\b 2. Permitted License Uses and Restrictions.
\b0   \

\b A. Developer Software. 
\b0 Subject to the terms and conditions of this License,
\b  
\b0 you are granted a limited, non-exclusive license to use the Developer Software on Apple-branded computers to develop and test application and other software. You may make only as many internal use copies of the Developer Software as reasonably necessary to use the Developer Software as permitted under this License and distribute such copies only to your employees whose job duties require them to so use the Developer Software; provided that you reproduce on each copy of the Developer Software or portion thereof, all copyright or other proprietary notices contained on the original. \
\

\b B.
\b0  
\b Sample Code.
\b0  Certain portions of the Developer Software consist of sample or example code provided by Apple ("Sample Code"). You may use, reproduce, modify and redistribute such Sample Code in accordance with the licensing terms accompanying such Sample Code or related project(s).
\b \
\
C. QuickTime Development Software. 
\b0 You may use the QuickTime development software only to develop application software that is compatible with, and runs only on supported Mac OS X and/or Windows platforms with QuickTime installed. Your software application may not interfere with the functionality of QuickTime Player or the QuickTime Plug-in, including but not limited to file type or MIME type associations that are registered to QuickTime.\
\

\b D. Dashcode.
\b0  Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, you may use the Dashcode tool included with the Developer Software on Apple-branded computers to test and develop web pages and Dashboard widgets.  Certain redistributable files are included with Dashcode (the "Apple Classes") and you may use, reproduce, modify and redistribute such Apple Classes in accordance with the licensing terms accompanying those Apple Classes files.\
\

\b E. Use of System Provided Images. 
\b0 The system provided images, as defined in Apple's Human Interface Guidelines for the Mac OS and the iPhone OS, that are created and owned by Apple ("System Provided Images") are licensed to you solely for the purpose of developing Mac OS and iPhone OS applications respectively using the Developer Software. Upon termination of this License, you may continue to distribute the System Provided Images as used within applications you developed using the Developer Software.  You must provide to Apple, at Apple's request, a copy of any software or applications you develop using the Developer Software that incorporate any of the System Provided Images, so Apple may determine, in its sole discretion, whether your use of the System Provided Images complies with these terms.\
\

\b F. Location Services. 
\b0 Apple may enable you to access certain location-based application programming interfaces (APIs) documented by Apple (\'93Location APIs\'94).  Subject to these terms and conditions, you may only use such Location APIs and services to enable applications you develop (\'93Applications\'94) to access location data (e.g. the real-time geographic location of a user\'92s computer) from users who consent to such access.  You agree that neither you nor your Applications will disable, override or otherwise interfere with any Apple-implemented system alerts, warnings, display panels, consent panels and the like, including, but not limited to, those that are intended to notify the user that the user's location data is being collected, transmitted, maintained, processed or used, or intended to obtain consent for such use.  If consent is denied or withdrawn, neither you nor your Applications may collect, transmit, maintain, process or utilize the user's location information or data through the Location APIs.\
\
You understand and agree that you and your Applications must comply with all applicable criminal, civil and statutory laws and regulations (including privacy, data collection and location service laws and regulations) in any jurisdictions in which your Applications may be delivered.  You shall be solely responsible for, and Apple shall have no responsibility or liability whatsoever with respect to, any and all claims, suits, liabilities, losses, damages, costs and expenses arising from, related or attributable to, or otherwise involving your Application, including but not limited to your Application\'92s use of the Location APIs.\

\b \
G. Additional Services
\b0 .  From time to time, Apple may provide access to services by or through the Developer Software for you to use in connection with your Applications.  Some of these additional services may be subject to separate terms and conditions that Apple will make available to you in addition to this License.  If you elect to use such services, your usage of such services will be subject to those separate terms and conditions. In addition, any such services may not be available in all languages or in all countries. Apple makes no representation that any such services would be appropriate or available for use in any particular location or that such services would continue to be available. To the extent you choose to access any such services, you do so at your own initiative and are responsible for compliance with any applicable laws, including but not limited to applicable local laws. Apple reserves the right to change, suspend, remove, or disable access to any services at any time. In no event will Apple be liable for the removal of or disabling of access to any such services.\
\

\b H. Open-Sourced Components
\b0 . Certain components of the Developer Software, and third party open source programs included with the Developer Software, have been or may be made available by Apple on its Open Source web site (http://www.opensource.apple.com/) (collectively the "Open-Sourced Components"). You may modify or replace only these Open-Sourced Components; provided that: (i) the resultant modified Developer Software is used in accordance with the permitted uses set forth above; and (ii) you otherwise comply with the terms of this License and any applicable licensing terms governing use of the Open-Sourced Components. Apple is not obligated to provide any updates, maintenance, warranty, technical or other support, or services for the resultant modified Developer Software.  \
\
You expressly acknowledge that if failure of or damage to Apple hardware results from modification of the Open-Sourced Components of the Developer Software, such failure or damage is excluded from the terms of the Apple hardware warranty.\

\b \
I. Other Restrictions.
\b0  You may not and you agree not to, or to enable others to, copy (except as expressly permitted by this License), decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble, attempt to derive the source code of, decrypt, modify, or create derivative works of the Developer Software or any services provided by the Developer Software, or any part thereof (except as and only to the extent any foregoing restriction is prohibited by applicable law or to the extent as may be permitted by licensing terms governing use of Open-Sourced Components). You agree to use the Developer Software and the Services (as defined in Section 6 below) in compliance with all applicable laws, including local laws of the country or region in which you reside or in which you download or use the Developer Software and Services.\
\

\b 3. Transfer.
\b0  You may not rent, lease, lend, sell, redistribute or sublicense the Developer Software.  You may, however, make a one-time permanent transfer of all of your license rights to the Developer Software (in its original form as provided by Apple) to another party, provided that: (a) the transfer must include all of the Developer Software, including all its component parts, original media, printed materials and this License; (b) you do not retain any copies of the Developer Software, full or partial, including copies stored on a computer or other storage device; and (c) the party receiving the Developer Software reads and agrees to accept the terms and conditions of this License. You may not rent, lease, lend, redistribute, sublicense or transfer any Developer Software that has been modified or replaced under Section 2H above. All components of the Developer Software are provided as part of a bundle and may not be separated from the bundle and distributed as standalone applications.  \
\

\b NFR (Not for Resale) and Evaluation Copies
\b0 : Notwithstanding other sections of this License, Developer Software labeled or otherwise provided to you on a promotional basis may only be used for demonstration, testing and evaluation purposes and may not be resold or transferred. \
\

\b 4. Termination.
\b0  This License is effective until terminated. Your rights under this License will terminate automatically or cease to be effective without notice from Apple if you fail to comply with any term(s) of this License. In addition, Apple reserves the right to terminate this License if a new version of Apple's operating system software or the Developer Software is released which is incompatible with this version of the Developer Software. Upon the termination of this License, you shall cease all use of the Developer Software and destroy all copies, full or partial, of the Developer Software. Section 5, 6, 7, 10 and 11 of this License shall survive any termination.\
\

\b 5. Limited Warranty on Media (if any).
\b0  Apple warrants the media on which the Developer Software is recorded and delivered by Apple to be free from defects in materials and workmanship under normal use for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of original retail purchase. Your exclusive remedy under this Section shall be, at Apple\'92s option, a refund of the purchase price of the product containing the Developer Software or replacement of the Developer Software which is returned to Apple or an Apple authorized representative with a copy of the receipt. THIS LIMITED WARRANTY AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES ON THE MEDIA INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, OF SATISFACTORY QUALITY, AND OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ARE LIMITED IN DURATION TO NINETY (90) DAYS FROM THE DATE OF ORIGINAL RETAIL PURCHASE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THE LIMITED WARRANTY SET FORTH HEREIN IS THE ONLY WARRANTY MADE TO YOU AND IS PROVIDED IN LIEU OF ANY OTHER WARRANTIES (IF ANY) CREATED BY ANY DOCUMENTATION, PACKAGING OR OTHERWISE. THIS LIMITED WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS, AND YOU MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS WHICH VARY BY JURISDICTION.\
\

\b 6. Disclaimer of Warranties.
\b0  YOU EXPRESSLY ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, USE OF THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE AND SERVICES PERFORMED BY OR THROUGH THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE (COLLECTIVELY, \'93SERVICES\'94) IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK AND THAT THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO SATISFACTORY QUALITY, PERFORMANCE, ACCURACY AND EFFORT IS WITH YOU. EXCEPT FOR THE LIMITED WARRANTY ON MEDIA SET FORTH ABOVE AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE AND SERVICES ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND \'93AS AVAILABLE\'94, WITH ALL FAULTS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, AND APPLE AND APPLE'S LICENSORS (COLLECTIVELY REFERRED TO AS "APPLE" FOR THE PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 6 AND 7) HEREBY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE AND SERVICES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, OF SATISFACTORY QUALITY, OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OF ACCURACY, OF QUIET ENJOYMENT, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. APPLE DOES NOT WARRANT AGAINST INTERFERENCE WITH YOUR ENJOYMENT OF THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE AND SERVICES, THAT THE FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN, OR SERVICES PERFORMED OR PROVIDED BY, THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, THAT THE OPERATION OF THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, THAT ANY SERVICES WILL CONTINUE TO BE MADE AVAILABLE, THAT THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL BE COMPATIBLE OR WORK WITH ANY THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE, APPLICATIONS OR THIRD PARTY SERVICES, OR THAT DEFECTS IN THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL BE CORRECTED. INSTALLATION OF THIS SOFTWARE MAY AFFECT THE USABILITY OF THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE, APPLICATIONS, OR THIRD PARTY SERVICES. YOU FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE IS NOT INTENDED OR SUITABLE FOR USE IN SITUATIONS OR ENVIRONMENTS WHERE THE FAILURE OF, OR ERRORS OR INACCURACIES IN THE CONTENT, DATA OR INFORMATION PROVIDED BY, THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE OR SERVICES COULD LEAD TO DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR SEVERE PHYSICAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE OPERATION OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION OR COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, LIFE SUPPORT OR WEAPONS SYSTEMS. NO ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE GIVEN BY APPLE OR AN APPLE AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY. SHOULD THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR LIMITATIONS ON APPLICABLE STATUTORY RIGHTS OF A CONSUMER, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION AND LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.  IN ADDITION, SERVICES THAT MAY BE ACCESSED FROM OR THROUGH THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ALL LANGUAGES OR IN ALL COUNTRIES.  APPLE MAKES NO REPRESENTATION THAT SUCH SERVICES ARE APPROPRIATE OR AVAILABLE FOR USE IN ANY PARTICULAR LOCATION.  TO THE EXTENT THAT YOU CHOOSE TO ACCESS SUCH SERVICES, YOU DO SO AT YOUR OWN INITIATIVE AND ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR COMPLIANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE LAWS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, APPLICABLE LOCAL LAWS.  APPLE RESERVES THE RIGHT TO CHANGE, SUSPEND, REMOVE, OR DISABLE ACCESS TO ANY SERVICES AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE.  IN NO EVENT WILL APPLE BE LIABLE FOR THE REMOVAL OF OR DISABLING OF ACCESS TO ANY SUCH SERVICES.  APPLE MAY IMPOSE LIMITS ON THE USE OF OR ACCESS TO CERTAIN SERVICES, IN ANY CASE AND WITHOUT NOTICE OR LIABILITY TO YOU.\
\

\b 7. Limitation of Liability.
\b0  TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL APPLE BE LIABLE FOR PERSONAL INJURY, OR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, CORRUPTION OR LOSS OF DATA, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION OR ANY OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE AND SERVICES OR ANY THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE, APPLICATIONS, OR SERVICES IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE DEVELOPER SOFTWARE, HOWEVER CAUSED, REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF LIABILITY (CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) AND EVEN IF APPLE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR PERSONAL INJURY, OR OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. In no event shall Apple's total liability to you for all damages (other than as may be required by applicable law in cases involving personal injury) exceed the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). The foregoing limitations will apply even if the above stated remedy fails of its essential purpose.\
\

\b 8. Export Control. 
\b0 You may not use or otherwise export or reexport the Developer Software except as authorized by United States law and the laws of the jurisdiction(s) in which the Developer Software was obtained. In particular, but without limitation, the Developer Software may not be exported or re-exported (a) into any U.S. embargoed countries or (b) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's list of Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Person's List or Entity List. By using the Developer Software, you represent and warrant that you are not located in any such country or on any such list. You also agree that you will not use the Developer Software for any purposes prohibited by United States law, including, without limitation, the development, design, manufacture or production of missiles, nuclear, chemical or biological weapons.\
\

\b 9. Government End Users.
\b0  The Developer Software and related documentation are "Commercial Items", as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. \'a72.101, consisting of "Commercial Computer Software" and "Commercial Computer Software Documentation", as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. \'a712.212 or 48 C.F.R. \'a7227.7202, as applicable. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. \'a712.212 or 48 C.F.R. \'a7227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, as applicable, the Commercial Computer Software and Commercial Computer Software Documentation are being licensed to U.S. Government end users (a) only as Commercial Items and (b) with only those rights as are granted to all other end users pursuant to the terms and conditions herein. Unpublished-rights reserved under the copyright laws of the United States.\
\

\b 10. Controlling Law and Severability.
\b0  This License will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, excluding its conflict of law principles. This License shall not be governed by the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, the application of which is expressly excluded. If for any reason a court of competent jurisdiction finds any provision, or portion thereof, to be unenforceable, the remainder of this License shall continue in full force and effect.  \
\

\b 11. Complete Agreement; Governing Language.
\b0  This License constitutes the entire agreement between you and Apple relating to the use of the Developer Software licensed hereunder and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous understandings regarding such subject matter. No amendment to or modification of this License will be binding unless in writing and signed by Apple. Any translation of this Agreement is done for local requirements and in the event of a dispute between the English and any non-English version, the English version of this Agreement shall govern, to the extent not prohibited by local law in your jurisdiction.\
\

\b 12. Third Party Acknowledgements.
\b0  \
A. Portions of the Developer Software utilize or include third party software and other copyrighted material. Acknowledgements, licensing terms and disclaimers for such material are contained in the electronic documentation for the Developer Software or may otherwise accompany such material, and your use of such material is governed by their respective terms.\
\
B. Certain software libraries and other third party software included with the Developer Software are free software and licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL) or the GNU Library/Lesser General Public License (LGPL), as the case may be. You may obtain a complete machine-readable copy of the source code for such free software under the terms of the GPL or LGPL, as the case may be, without charge except for the cost of media, shipping, and handling, upon written request to Apple. The GPL/LGPL software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. A copy of the GPL and LGPL is included with the Developer Software.\
\
C. The Developer Software includes certain software licensed under the IBM Public License Version 1.0 (IPL) or the Common Public License Version 1.0 (CPL). A copy of the source code for the IPL and CPL licensed software may be found in Apple\'92s Open Source repository. See Apple's Open Source web site (<http://www.opensource.apple.com>/) for information on how to obtain the source code. THE IPL AND CPL SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ON AN \'93AS IS\'94 BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  NEITHER APPLE, IBM NOR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR TO THE  IPL AND CPL SOFTWARE SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE IPL AND CPL SOFTWARE OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\
\
EA0609\
3/3/10
\f2 \
}